---
title: Jimmie falls out of car and is run over
parent: Growing up in Webb City Funny Stories and not so funny
layout: default
nav_order: 11
---

# Jimmie falls out of car and is run over *(they thought)*

Again, these stories really happened. True story

One of Dad and Moms favorite things to do was take a road trip to Arkansas.  Especially in the fall.  The drive through the mountains was beautiful. Sometimes on Sunday afternoon we would drive down to Rogers, the home of Daisy BB Guns and A&Q Chicken House, a family restaurant which served the best southern fried chicken ever.  Plus, the French Fries were battered with the same batter used for fried chicken and they were golden brown and delicious.  Mom liked the mashed potatoes and gravy and the home-made yeast rolls, fresh out of the oven.   One day after dinner we stopped by some of the roadside stores that were mostly tourist traps, but we enjoyed looking around.  Dad would always buy some sorghum which came in one-gallon cans, he loved it. It was getting late and dark by the time we started for home. Melvin and David and I were in the back seat of the 1949 Buick.  Melvin and David were asleep. Vern was not born yet so I must have been around 4 or 5 years old.  We were driving through downtown traffic on a two-lane street, in Rogers. I was down in the floor between the back seat and driver’s seat, wrestling with that one gallon can of sorghum, when I somehow opened the rear car door and I fell out of the car holding the can of sorghum.  When we (me and the can) hit the pavement, I bounced one way and the can another.  The rear wheel of the car ran over the can and bounced over it.  Mom looked around and screamed, “Jimmie fell out and we’ve ran over him”. Now Melvin and David are wide awake and looking out the back window. Melvin says, “there’s blood all over the road”.  Mom almost faints, and Dad is trying to get the car turned around.  By the time they did get turned around they found me sitting on the curb on the opposite side of the street from where I fell out of the car. I guess by that time they had figured out that they ran over the can of sorghum and not me. I had a few scuff marks and bruises, but I really felt pretty good, until Dad said, “we’ve got to take him to the hospital” at which point I pleaded NO! Please no hospital. I had been to a hospital before, and it was not a good experience. Well, we did go to the Hospital, and I survived. No broken bones and the doctor had me patched up in no time.  The Doctor said to Mom and Dad,” you really need to keep an eye on this kid”. Later, when we got home, safe and secure and ready for a good night’s sleep.  David asks me why I ran clear across the street through traffic instead of the other way, “it was closer,” he said.  David always had that smarter than thou attitude.
