---
title: Diving together
layout: default
parent: Vern and I, good times, sad times
---

# Diving together

Vern was never a Certified Scuba Diver. I had extra diving gear and taught him how to use it.  We started out in shallow water and I emphasized safety strongly since there are several was to get hurt and even killed if you do not go by the rules.

I have two memorable dives that we made together.  The first is a dive we made at Oronogo Circle open pit mine July 7, 1970.  Vern was home on leave from the Army after his Basic training at Fort Leonard Wood, MO. and his AIT training in Maryland.  He was scheduled to ship out to Viet Nam after his two weeks leave.  I took vacation from North American taking advantage of the 4th of July holiday to spend a few days with him and Mom before he shipped out.

Looking for something to do one day we decided to go out to Oronogo Circle and scuba dive. We dove along the East side because that was the most assessable point.  We headed South from our entry point where the depth was around 60 feet max. There were plenty of cliffs and caves along the way. Visibility at the circle was always good.  This day it was excellent, over 50 feet. After we had used about half of our air supply, we backtracked too our entry point.  Along the way we came across a 1955 Ford Fairlane at about 20 feet depth.  I took my divers knife and carved “VM JM 7-7-70” in the left front fender. I used to call Vern on July 7 every year after that and ask him if he remembered where we were on that day in 1970.  The old Ford is probably long gone by now, but I still have the memory.
The second dive we made together that I’ll never forget is the first Dive either of us had mad in the Atlantic Ocean.  When Vern got back from Nam, he was stationed at Fort Bragg, NC.  After serving his time in the Army at Fort Bragg he and his new wife moved to Southport, NC where two GE Boiling water Nuclear power plants were being built By Brown& Root Construction Co out of Texas.  Vern worked there as an electrician and his wife Angie worked at a local restaurant. Southport is on the Cape Fear river and that was an ideal location for the power plants. Vern and I used to talk on the phone often, I was working for a trucking company in the accounting office at the time and we had what was called a “Trunk Line” which meant we could call anywhere in the US toll free. I had a background in Instrumentation at North American and Vern said I would be a cinch to get a job there with Brown & Root. They hired me and I moved to Southport IN June 1972. I stayed with Vern and Angie and their baby boy Kenneth for a few days till I got my own place.   I brought my Scuba gear along and I was excited about the prospect of diving in the ocean.  Vern had been telling me about a great place at Wrightsville beach where the water was clear, and we could dive along a jetty protecting the Banks Channel inlet. We did not have a boat, but we didn’t need one since we could swim over to the jetty from the beach to make our dive.  We packed up our beach gear and scuba gear and headed to Wrightsville beach taking Angie and Kenneth along. The jetty was constructed with huge rocks piled together building a kind of wall to protect the inlet and keep it open for boats coming in and out. Diving was allowed on the ocean side but not on the channel side.

Vern and I donned our gear and snorkeled out to the jetty, then switched to our regulators (air) and descended to about 20 feet depth. We worked our way all the way to the end of the jetty where the depth was 30 feet, the visibility was great, well over 20 feet.  Along the way we saw all kinds of sea life, fish of all kinds (except sharks), all kinds of shells, star fish, sea urchins, sand dollars, even octopuses and sting rays. It was like diving on a coral reef. I had never seen such a beautiful sight. We had planned to go out to the end of the jetty , about one quarter mile, then make our way back toward the shore until we ran out of air and then snorkel and swim back to shore when we were close enough.  A good plan indeed. Except, we did not take the tide into consideration.  An awfully bad mistake as the tide was going out and against us coming back.  I estimate it took us about 30 minutes to make it out (with the tide) and turn around and start back (against the tide).   With the extra excretion swimming against the tide we used up the air in our tanks quickly, so we surfaced and headed to the shore, snorkeling.  I am not estimating the time it took us to get back to shore, Angie who witnessed the whole thing, said it took us two hours.  Vern and I were both exhausted and incredibly lucky to have made it back without help from the coast guard.  We could have been swept out to sea and never made be seen again. I must say I, found out the hard way that diving in the ocean is totally different than anything I had experienced diving in the Lakes and streams and open pit mines back home.  I found a dive shop in Wrightsville Beach and signed up for an Advanced Divers Certification class which taught me all about the dangers with open water dives in the ocean. I really enjoyed the training, I learned all about the tides, currents, and dangerous critters out there. I also learned to breathe from a tank if my regulator went bad. Made a free assent from 60 feet. Do a compass run, Knight dives, proper way to get out of and back in the dive boat. And the proper way to enter from shore in heavy surf .Vern didn’t dive with me that much but after that but I made several dives with the dive shop where I got my Advanced training and several other shops in coastal NC and SC.
