---
title: Fishing on Center Creek
layout: default
parent: Vern and I, good times, sad times
---

# Fishing on Center Creek.

Center creek, north of town was quite an attraction for Webb City boys.  Vern who was about 7 or 8 at the time and I was 12 or 13, decided one summer day to go out there and explore and see what we could see.  About half a mile north of the bridge, there was a gate that the local farmer used to access his field next to the river.  By going that way (the farmer gave us permission) we could cut across the field and come out a good mile up stream to and area we called “Green wade”, where there was a bend in the river, a sand bank on the East side (great for swimming) and a deep hole for  fishing  and a cave in the bluff behind the river bank on the west side.  We could walk along a path in the bank from the bridge to Green Wade but there were two spots where there were Dry creek beds you had to cross and if the river was high, they were impassable. I guess it all depended on how much time we had or how much rainfall we had gotten made the decision for us. Later, when we were old enough to drive, we would park at the gate and walk on down to green Wade.  This day we were not even close to driving.  We took the path and on the way to Green Wade we looked for fishing lures, hooks and sinkers hung up in the trees that we could collect along the way up the river.  We made it up there ok and caught a couple of grasshoppers for bait. We never would take a fishing pole, we would just take a knife and cut off a tree limb and make one. It was always a fun day out to the river weather we caught fish or not. There was a steep bank at Green Wade, maybe four or five feet down to the water.  Well Vern hooked the biggest sun perch I have ever seen.  In today’s world it would easily be a citation fish. As Vern was landing the fish it shook off and bounced down the bank into the water. I yelled at Vern “WHY DID YOU DO THAT?” Vern cried, maybe because the fish got away, but I am sure it was because I yelled at him. I wish I hadn’t, I think about that day often. Fish get away, they shake off, they break the line, get tangled up in brush.  It is just part of the sport of fishing. I have relived that moment many times since that day. Vern, if you can hear me now, I am sorry.
