---
title: We fly from Joplin, Mo to Warren, PA to visit Melvin
layout: default
parent: Vern and I, good times, sad times
---

# We fly from Joplin, Mo to Warren, PA to visit Melvin

I learned to fly while working for North American Aircraft Company at their Tulsa, Oklahoma plant. The plant manager was a pilot, and to encourage employees to learn to fly, he started a flying club. He made a deal with the manager of Riverside Airport, an airport a few miles South of Tulsa. Club members could rent a Cessna 150 for $5.00 an hour wet. If I correctly remember the CFI (Certified Flight Instructor) got $7.00 an hour. Our club had Aircraft Engineers, Pilots, and Meteorologist to teach ground school and prepare us for the FAA written test. We would have classes after work one day a week, where we learned all about the Theory of flight, Navigation and Weather. My first hour of flight was on 5/2/1967. I soloed 5/31/67 with 12.1 hours and passed my Oral Test and Check Ride 9/24/67 with 58.4 hours, which included 25.3 hours of dual time. I don’t remember the exact date I passed the written test (which took three hours) but it had to be passed before I could take the check ride.

Our brother Melvin had moved from the farm in Mt. Vernon MO. to Warren, PA. He had hired on with a company that was building a Pumped Storage Power plant in the mountains of Pennsylvania on the Allegany River. It was a Mountains area just south of the New York border below Jamestown, NY.

By the time I flew from Tulsa to Joplin on Aug. 25, 1968 to pick up Vern I had logged about 100 hours of flight time. I decided to spend a few days in Webb City, see Mom and a few fiends before Vern and I made our trip to see Murph, Norma, Leanne and Pam. (Insert Photo)

On Aug. 28 Vern and I departed Joplin on the first leg of our 800-mile trip in a rented 1968 Cessna 172, tail number N35331. Joplin to Terre Haute, IN which took 3.8 hours (3 hours 48 minutes) where we stopped for fuel and lunch. Navigation in those days was vastly different than today. The basic Instruments were Magnetic Compass, NAV/COM Radio and VOR. Without getting too technical, the NAV section of the radio is used to tune in an OMNI station on the ground and fly directly to it, and from that station to the next station until reaching your destination. The range of the radio signal to and from a station is 150 miles, 300 total. The ground stations (OMNI) are on the Navigation Chart (map) so a trip can be planned easily. All the while checking the chart for cities, highways, rivers, any landmarks. This is known as DED Reckoning Navigation.

The second leg of our flight was from Terre Haute to Mansfield OH. I estimated it would take about 2.5 hours, and it would have, except the second OMNI station near Mansfield was out of service. So, by the time we lost our signal from the first station, we were lost.

I couldn’t fly the airplane and read the chart to find another station along our route, so I descended to the nearest town and buzzed their water tower to obtain our location. As luck would have it (Luck of the Irish) we spotted a landing strip nearby and landed so I could look at the chart and get our bearings, and back on course to an alternate OMNI station which took us to Mansfield where we stopped for fuel, flight time 3.0 hours.

The remainder of our flight was uneventful until we got to Warren and located their airfield on a peninsula along the Allegany River deep in a valley surrounded by mountain peaks on all sides, plus a tall smokestack from an old power plant near one end of the runway and the river at the other end. The only way to get in there was to corkscrew down to pattern altitude and then land according to the wind direction. The runway looked new, it was blacktop and in good condition. So, there we were, on final lined up with the runway minutes from touchdown, when two local clowns in a jeep suddenly came out of nowhere tearing down the runway in front of us. Airplanes do not have a horn (I often wish they did), I raced the engine a couple of times to get their attention and they pulled off and disappeared into the woods. and we landed safely without having to go around. It was late in the day by the time we taxied slightly up hill to the FBO and tied the airplane down. No One at the FBO, but there was a pay phone outside and we called Melvin and he came over to get us. We had a nice dinner with Murph, Norma and the kids, Leanne and Pamala. The next day I took Melvin and two of his co-workers for an aerial view of their job site. I fueled up the airplane when we got back. While talking to the airport manager he told me that a week earlier a guy in a Sterman Aircraft had landed long and ran off the end of the runway into the river. He survived but his plane was totaled. He also told me that the locals never use the paved runway, they all land on the grass strip. Lesson learned, when flying into a small airport always call the manager first. Vern and I had an uneventful trip back to Joplin via Brookside, Indiana and Rolla, Missouri, stopping for fuel at both locations. Total round trip 1600 NM and 128.6 gallons of fuel used 18.1 hours of flight, 7.1-gal fuel per hour, average speed, 123MPH.