---
title: "Chapter Eleven: Dave and I were teen aged bootleggers"
parent: My Story Jim Murphy
layout: default
nav_order: 11
---

# Chapter Eleven  Dave and I were teen aged bootleggers.

First let me explain the difference between Bootleggers and Moonshiners. Two totally different groups of people providing one thing, Alcohol.

Moonshiners are the guys out in the hills somewhere with a still, making corn liquor, or grain alcohol. When caught doing this they were arrested, fined and sometimes jailed. Its ironic that today people are making it and selling it to oil companies who add it to gas (ethanol) making tons of money and its perfectly legal.

What about Bootleggers? There was a time in our history when making or selling alcoholic beverages anywhere in America was against the law. It was called prohibition. At this same time, there were people like Al Capone in Chicago, ILL. and Joseph Kennedy of Hainesport New Hampshire and others who made millions of dollars bringing Liquor into the United States from Canada. And this was not Corn-liquor, it was Name brand beverages from distilleries in Canada.  Bourbon, Scotch, Vodka, Rum, Beer, the good stuff, which was in high demand. Eventually Prohibition was overturned, and individual states governed the sell and consumption of alcoholic beverages. Different states had vastly different ideas concerning taxation, distribution, the alcohol content in beer or wine. Privately owned liquor stores Versus State owned. You get the idea. There were some states who remained “dry”. No selling of al beverages.  Oklahoma was a dry state, Missouri was not. I do not remember the exact period, but David was 16 or 17 years old, and I was 13 or 14.  The Game over the pool hall was shut down at the time, so Dad went into the bootlegging business.

This was a family business; this is how it worked. Citizens in a large city in OK would contact a bootlegger and place an order for booze. The bootlegger would take orders until he had enough for a “load “which would be several cases (40 or 50) of spirits. Then he would contact by telephone (Mom) with an order, she would pass it on to Dad, and he in turn would order that plus whatever he needed for the store with the local distributor in Joplin.  And the order would be delivered to Dad’s liquor store in Dunewig. When the order was delivered to the store each case would be opened (top cut on three sides) and the contents “Lugged”.  A “Lug” went like this, five fifths, six pints, eight ½ pints. The bottles were wrapped in brown paper and taped. Then would be placed back into the box from the distributor.  This was best for transport to the meeting place with the bootlegger.

Dad had purchased two Ford F-100 ½ ton pickups with sideboards and a tarp over the top and sides. The “load” would be neatly stacked in the bed of the truck at the store and then drove to a pre-arranged place to rendezvous with the BL. That was where Dave and I came in, we would do the loading and unloading. The case boxes would be lined up along each side of the Garage, Barn or wherever, and grouped so they could be checked, counted and ready for the BL to load into his car, lug by lug. Dad had several locations for the rendezvous with the BL. A 10-acre farm outside Alba with a little two and ½ story house with a barn out back. A filling station with a garage in Dunewig. A 100-acre farm with a small barn near center creek North of Webb City. The Bait and Tackle shop with a garage on Range Line in Webb City across from the drive-in theater. And finally, the garage next to our house at 603 North Liberty Street. These are the ones Dave, and I knew about.  There were others, recall Dad bought two Ford F100’s. He also had hired two men who were loading other BL’s at other locations.

You may ask, how could a BL possibly load several cases of whiskey in a car? This is where the “Lugs” came in. The back seat of the car was removed, and a shelf was added over the empty space with a black rug covering it. They would place the lugs in every little nook and cranny from the back of the driver’s seat to the all the way back to the trunk of the car. The larger bottles (Fifths) on the bottom then the smaller (Pints) then the smallest (1/2 pints) on top. Occasionally they would unwrap a lug and place individual bottles in spaces where needed to fill in a gap in the load.

There were three BL’s I remember. They never used their real names. One was nicknamed “Big Red”, from Oklahoma City. Another” Little Red”, from Tulsa. And the third, who did not have a nickname. Mom said he would say “It’s Me” when he would call in an order. He was from Oklahoma, but I do not know where. He was very secretive, didn’t talk much, always wore gloves. He would always switch license plates when he pulled in, he had Arkansas, Oklahoma and Missouri plates.

The cars they drove were powerful and in top condition. When they pulled in the garage, they would do is jack up the rear end of the car and install overload springs on the rear wheels. The rear end of the car would be much higher with the overloads on, but the car would be level after loaded. After the car was loaded, Dave and I would throw the empty boxes into the back of the truck to be burned at the dumps on the way home. And Dad and the BL would go inside and count the money for payment for the load. Always cash, and it would cover the entire top of the table, between 6 and 8 thousand dollars in cash, small bills. Sounds like a lot of money, but they were paying above retail price for the LQ, and their customers were paying an even higher price for LQ they could not buy in their state.  But, they could have it delivered to their door, like the milk man.

Little Red, and Big Red were genuinely nice and sociable. “It’s Me” did not have much to say. He was not unfriendly, just all business.

The BL’s would be as careful as possible not to get caught by the law for obvious reasons like losing their load, paying a fine and possibly going to jail. In fact, Dad said Little Red had spent six months in jail at one time.  What they feared the most, were HI-Jackers who would take your money, car, and LQ and do you bodily harm to boot. None of our guys were ever Hi-Jacked or arrested.

Eventually Oklahoma put the BL’s and us out of business by going “Wet” like so many other states they decided to profit by their citizens desire to drink.  By that time Dad had started the Confidential Loan Company, and he and Les re-opened the Club over the pool hall. And David and I had more free time evenings.
