---
title: I Voted Twice 1964
layout: default
parent: Stories
---

# I Voted Twice 1964

I joined the Missouri Army National Guard when I was 17 years old. My mother signed for me so I could join before 18 years old. My two older Brothers had also joined at an early age and encouraged me to join. Several of my friends joined, it was a good way to earn gas money. We had an Armory right there in Webb City. (add more later)

After graduating High School class of 1961, I and several of my classmates served six months active duty in the regular US Army. Three months Basic training at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo and three months AIT training at Fort Knox, KY. After returning home from Ft. Knox Jim Burk and I drove over to Joplin and signed up for Unemployment. Instead of signing us up, they sent us over to the Long Bell lumber company, a division of the Long bell telephone company which made telephone poles out of trees. They put us to work the following day making $1.09 per hour. That job lasted trough the winter months (we froze) all work was outside, it was a cold winter. By springtime we were laid off. Later I applied for a job with American Tower Co. in Joplin. I had seen a help wanted ad in the newspaper, I went over to their office to apply and after looking me over the personnel guy said, “I think you’ll do but come outside for a moment.” We went out the back door into the alley.  He pointed to a water tower perched atop a 10-story building across the alley and said, “Go up that fire escape ladder to the top of the building, climb up the ladder on the tower to the catwalk, walk around it and come back down.” To make a long story short I made it about halfway up the water tower, looked down, froze, and slowly came back down.  He smiled and said, “it happens to a lot of people.”

 My brother David who was working outside sales for Cook Paint Company in Joplin got word that their Brookside store in Tulsa OK had an opening for a sales/delivery man. David knew the District manager in Tulsa who had just moved down there from Joplin, Albert Entz.  He called Mr. Entz and recommended me for the job, and I was hired, sight unseen. I guess he figured if I were anything like David, I would be OK. I worked there a little over two years, and it was my first full time steady job. I loved driving the delivery truck which was a 1954 chevy ½ ton pickup. My starting salary was $250 per month. I worked Monday thru Saturday 7am to 5pm. One hour for lunch which was nice and with ½ day off each Wednesday. I rode the City Bus to and from work. Brookside was a two-man store, the manager and me. We did have a part time worker on Wednesdays, a city of Tulsa Fireman named Paul who could work more days if needed. For example, one day a year we would take inventory of all the merchandise in the store and Paul would help us that day.

I was not starving to death but was just getting by. I had a roommate who I met at the YMCA where I stayed for a few weeks when I first got to town. We rented a two-bedroom apartment which was in a nice area of downtown. Rent was $80 per month, we split expenses and it was working out ok until the roommate went back to school at Tulsa University, and would be staying on campus. Things got tight after he moved out but not for long.    (insert photo here?)

One night I had a visit from a good friend Steve Ferguson who had recently graduated Webb City HS class of 1962 and had started training for an A&P license from the FAA at the Spartan School of Aeronautics near the airport in East Tulsa. He had three of his classmates with him and they were looking for a roommate. They had rented a three-bedroom one bath house near the school.  The store where I worked was in West Tulsa but that was not a problem since by now I a car. A 1954 Mercury two door hardtop with an Oldsmobile V8 engine and floor shift 3 speed transmission which I had purchased from Bud Epperson’s neighbor in Cartersville for $60. The house was unfurnished, but one of the guys parents gave us a kitchen table. I had a GE tabletop TV, someone else had a radio record player. We slept on single wide mattress on the floor. The bathroom could get pretty crowded in the mornings, but I was usually the first one in there since I had to be at work at 7am, they didn’t have to be in school till 9am so it all worked out. The total cost for our humble abode, $20.80 per month each, rent and utilities. For the first time I now had a little money left over at the end of the month. (Insert photo here?)

Cook paint required all stores take inventory for tax purposes each year. Always the Friday before Thanksgiving. Our parttime guy Paul was working with us counting inventory Friday Nov. 22, 1963. We decided to take our lunch break at a BBQ House across the river. On our way back to the store we heard the news on the radio that President Kennedy had been shot. We kept the radio on in the store and later learned that he had been assassinated. I guess everyone who was alive at that time can tell you where they were and what they were doing when they got the news that day. Live coverage of the assassination went on radio and TV for four straight days. That year I did not go home for Thanksgiving. I remember watching TV the following Sunday afternoon and watched as Jack Ruby shoot and kill Lee Harvey Oswald on live TV at the Houston Police station. I also watched as Vice President Johnson took the oath of office and became President serving the remainder of President Kennedy’s term.  Lyndon Johnson was Elected on his own in 1964. Which (Finally) brings us back to how I voted twice in one Presidential election.

One day at work I got a call from my Mother asking if I would vote for the County Sheriff who was running for reelection.  He had been Sherriff for quite some time and was good friend of my Dad. I ask how can I vote for him since I am residing in Oklahoma? She said that his wife would mail me an Absentee Ballot, filled out. Sign it, and send it back in the preaddressed envelope, which I did. Prior to the November election I registered to vote in Oklahoma and voted in person this time.

I voted for Linden Johnson for president. I was 21 years old, so young and innocent I had no idea what I was doing.  This was the first and last time I voted for a Democrat. Buy the next election I was working for North American Aviation making a decent wage and paying taxes and was paying much more attention to the issues.  I now think that the voting age should be raised back to 21 for women and 30 for men.
