---
title: Vern and I, good times, sad times
layout: default
parent: Stories
---

# Vern and I, good times, sad times Continued

## Fishing on Center Creek.

Center creek, north of town was quite an attraction for Webb City boys.  Vern who was about 7 or 8 at the time and I was 12 or 13, decided one summer day to go out there and explore and see what we could see.  About half a mile north of the bridge, there was a gate that the local farmer used to access his field next to the river.  By going that way (the farmer gave us permission) we could cut across the field and come out a good mile up stream to and area we called “Green wade”, where there was a bend in the river, a sand bank on the East side (great for swimming) and a deep hole for  fishing  and a cave in the bluff behind the river bank on the west side.  We could walk along a path in the bank from the bridge to Green Wade but there were two spots where there were Dry creek beds you had to cross and if the river was high, they were impassable. I guess it all depended on how much time we had or how much rainfall we had gotten made the decision for us. Later, when we were old enough to drive, we would park at the gate and walk on down to green Wade.  This day we were not even close to driving.  We took the path and on the way to Green Wade we looked for fishing lures, hooks and sinkers hung up in the trees that we could collect along the way up the river.  We made it up there ok and caught a couple of grasshoppers for bait. We never would take a fishing pole, we would just take a knife and cut off a tree limb and make one. It was always a fun day out to the river weather we caught fish or not. There was a steep bank at Green Wade, maybe four or five feet down to the water.  Well Vern hooked the biggest sun perch I have ever seen.  In today’s world it would easily be a citation fish. As Vern was landing the fish it shook off and bounced down the bank into the water. I yelled at Vern “WHY DID YOU DO THAT?” Vern cried, maybe because the fish got away, but I am sure it was because I yelled at him. I wish I hadn’t, I think about that day often. Fish get away, they shake off, they break the line, get tangled up in brush.  It is just part of the sport of fishing. I have relived that moment many times since that day. Vern, if you can hear me now, I am sorry.


## We fly from Joplin, Mo to Warren, PA to visit Melvin

I learned to fly while working for North American Aircraft Company at their Tulsa, Oklahoma plant. The plant manager was a pilot, and to encourage employees to learn to fly, he started a flying club.  He made a deal with the manager of Riverside Airport, an airport a few miles South of Tulsa. Club members could rent a Cessna 150 for $5.00 an hour wet. If I correctly remember the CFI (Certified Flight Instructor) got $7.00 an hour. Our club had Aircraft Engineers, Pilots, and Meteorologist to teach ground school and prepare us for the FAA written test. We would have classes after work one day a week, where we learned all about the Theory of flight, Navigation and Weather. My first hour of flight was on 5/2/1967. I soloed 5/31/67 with 12.1 hours and passed my Oral Test and Check Ride 9/24/67 with 58.4 hours, which included 25.3 hours of dual time. I don’t remember the exact date I passed the written test (which took three hours) but it had to be passed before I could take the check ride.

Our brother Melvin had moved from the farm in Mt. Vernon MO. to Warren, PA. He had hired on with a company that was building a Pumped Storage Power plant in the mountains of Pennsylvania on the Allegany River. It was a Mountains area just south of the New York border below Jamestown, NY.

By the time I flew from Tulsa to Joplin on Aug. 25, 1968 to pick up Vern I had logged about 100 hours of flight time. I decided to spend a few days in Webb City, see Mom and a few fiends before Vern and I made our trip to see Murph, Norma, Leanne and Pam.  (Insert Photo)

On Aug. 28 Vern and I departed Joplin on the first leg of our 800-mile trip in a rented 1968 Cessna 172, tail number N35331. Joplin to Terre Haute, IN which took 3.8 hours (3 hours 48 minutes) where we stopped for fuel and lunch. 
Navigation in those days was vastly different than today.  The basic Instruments were Magnetic Compass, NAV/COM Radio and VOR. Without getting too technical, the NAV section of the radio is used to tune in an OMNI station on the ground and fly directly to it, and from that station to the next station until reaching your destination. The range of the radio signal to and from a station is 150 miles, 300 total.   The ground stations (OMNI) are on the Navigation Chart (map) so a trip can be planned easily. All the while checking the chart for cities, highways, rivers, any landmarks. This is known as DED Reckoning Navigation.

The second leg of our flight was from Terre Haute to Mansfield OH. I estimated it would take about 2.5 hours, and it would have, except the second OMNI station near Mansfield was out of service.  So, by the time we lost our signal from the first station, we were lost.

I couldn’t fly the airplane and read the chart to find another station along our route, so I descended to the nearest town and buzzed their water tower to obtain our location.  As luck would have it (Luck of the Irish) we spotted a landing strip nearby and landed so I could look at the chart and get our bearings, and back on course to an alternate OMNI station which took us to Mansfield where we stopped for fuel, flight time 3.0 hours.

The remainder of our flight was uneventful until we got to Warren and located their airfield on a peninsula along the Allegany River deep in a valley surrounded by mountain peaks on all sides, plus a tall smokestack from an old power plant near one end of the runway and the river at the other end.  The only way to get in there was to corkscrew down to pattern altitude and then land according to the wind direction.  The runway looked new, it was blacktop and in good condition.  So, there we were, on final lined up with the runway minutes from touchdown, when two local clowns in a jeep suddenly came out of nowhere tearing down the runway in front of us.  Airplanes do not have a horn (I often wish they did), I raced the engine a couple of times to get their attention and they pulled off and disappeared into the woods. and we landed safely without having to go around.  It was late in the day by the time we taxied slightly up hill to the FBO and tied the airplane down.  No One at the FBO, but there was a pay phone outside and we called Melvin and he came over to get us. We had a nice dinner with Murph, Norma and the kids, Leanne and Pamala.  The next day I took Melvin and two of his co-workers for an aerial view of their job site. I fueled up the airplane when we got back. While talking to the airport manager he told me that a week earlier a guy in a Sterman Aircraft had landed long and ran off the end of the runway into the river. He survived but his plane was totaled. He also told me that the locals never use the paved runway, they all land on the grass strip.   Lesson learned, when flying into a small airport always call the manager first.  Vern and I had an uneventful trip back to Joplin via Brookside, Indiana and Rolla, Missouri, stopping for fuel at both locations. Total round trip 1600 NM and 128.6 gallons of fuel used 18.1 hours of flight, 7.1-gal fuel per hour, average speed, 123MPH.

## Diving together

Vern was never a Certified Scuba Diver. I had extra diving gear and taught him how to use it.  We started out in shallow water and I emphasized safety strongly since there are several was to get hurt and even killed if you do not go by the rules.

I have two memorable dives that we made together.  The first is a dive we made at Oronogo Circle open pit mine July 7, 1970.  Vern was home on leave from the Army after his Basic training at Fort Leonard Wood, MO. and his AIT training in Maryland.  He was scheduled to ship out to Viet Nam after his two weeks leave.  I took vacation from North American taking advantage of the 4th of July holiday to spend a few days with him and Mom before he shipped out.

Looking for something to do one day we decided to go out to Oronogo Circle and scuba dive. We dove along the East side because that was the most assessable point.  We headed South from our entry point where the depth was around 60 feet max. There were plenty of cliffs and caves along the way. Visibility at the circle was always good.  This day it was excellent, over 50 feet. After we had used about half of our air supply, we backtracked too our entry point.  Along the way we came across a 1955 Ford Fairlane at about 20 feet depth.  I took my divers knife and carved “VM JM 7-7-70” in the left front fender. I used to call Vern on July 7 every year after that and ask him if he remembered where we were on that day in 1970.  The old Ford is probably long gone by now, but I still have the memory.
The second dive we made together that I’ll never forget is the first Dive either of us had mad in the Atlantic Ocean.  When Vern got back from Nam, he was stationed at Fort Bragg, NC.  After serving his time in the Army at Fort Bragg he and his new wife moved to Southport, NC where two GE Boiling water Nuclear power plants were being built By Brown& Root Construction Co out of Texas.  Vern worked there as an electrician and his wife Angie worked at a local restaurant. Southport is on the Cape Fear river and that was an ideal location for the power plants. Vern and I used to talk on the phone often, I was working for a trucking company in the accounting office at the time and we had what was called a “Trunk Line” which meant we could call anywhere in the US toll free. I had a background in Instrumentation at North American and Vern said I would be a cinch to get a job there with Brown & Root. They hired me and I moved to Southport IN June 1972. I stayed with Vern and Angie and their baby boy Kenneth for a few days till I got my own place.   I brought my Scuba gear along and I was excited about the prospect of diving in the ocean.  Vern had been telling me about a great place at Wrightsville beach where the water was clear, and we could dive along a jetty protecting the Banks Channel inlet. We did not have a boat, but we didn’t need one since we could swim over to the jetty from the beach to make our dive.  We packed up our beach gear and scuba gear and headed to Wrightsville beach taking Angie and Kenneth along. The jetty was constructed with huge rocks piled together building a kind of wall to protect the inlet and keep it open for boats coming in and out. Diving was allowed on the ocean side but not on the channel side.

Vern and I donned our gear and snorkeled out to the jetty, then switched to our regulators (air) and descended to about 20 feet depth. We worked our way all the way to the end of the jetty where the depth was 30 feet, the visibility was great, well over 20 feet.  Along the way we saw all kinds of sea life, fish of all kinds (except sharks), all kinds of shells, star fish, sea urchins, sand dollars, even octopuses and sting rays. It was like diving on a coral reef. I had never seen such a beautiful sight. We had planned to go out to the end of the jetty , about one quarter mile, then make our way back toward the shore until we ran out of air and then snorkel and swim back to shore when we were close enough.  A good plan indeed. Except, we did not take the tide into consideration.  An awfully bad mistake as the tide was going out and against us coming back.  I estimate it took us about 30 minutes to make it out (with the tide) and turn around and start back (against the tide).   With the extra excretion swimming against the tide we used up the air in our tanks quickly, so we surfaced and headed to the shore, snorkeling.  I am not estimating the time it took us to get back to shore, Angie who witnessed the whole thing, said it took us two hours.  Vern and I were both exhausted and incredibly lucky to have made it back without help from the coast guard.  We could have been swept out to sea and never made be seen again. I must say I, found out the hard way that diving in the ocean is totally different than anything I had experienced diving in the Lakes and streams and open pit mines back home.  I found a dive shop in Wrightsville Beach and signed up for an Advanced Divers Certification class which taught me all about the dangers with open water dives in the ocean. I really enjoyed the training, I learned all about the tides, currents, and dangerous critters out there. I also learned to breathe from a tank if my regulator went bad. Made a free assent from 60 feet. Do a compass run, Knight dives, proper way to get out of and back in the dive boat. And the proper way to enter from shore in heavy surf .Vern didn’t dive with me that much but after that but I made several dives with the dive shop where I got my Advanced training and several other shops in coastal NC and SC.
